8:30 AM - Morning Standup and Review of Tickets

Review JIRA Issues:
The QA tester starts their day by reviewing open tickets and bug reports in Jira. They check any new issues related to the Tech Palette Mentor app and confirm which features need testing based on the latest builds from the dev team. This might include issues like:

Grid visibility toggling
Color selection functionality
Palette dropdown and paint color selection
Daily Meeting:
The tester attends the daily standup with the development team to clarify which features are ready for testing and discuss any blockers. They align on the testing scope for the day.

9:00 AM - Writing Test Scenarios Using Gherkin

Create or Update Gherkin Scenarios:
The tester writes Gherkin scenarios for newly implemented features or updates in the Tech Palette Mentor app. These scenarios reflect the functionality of the app and are aligned with the development team's latest changes.

Example Scenarios (written in Gherkin):

gherkin

Feature: Tech Palette Mentor Grid Functionality

Scenario: User clicks grid button to toggle visibility
  Given the user is logged into the app
  When the user clicks on the grid button
  Then the grid should toggle visibility

Scenario: User changes grid size using the slider
  Given the user has clicked on the grid button
  When the user moves the grid size slider to 10
  Then the grid should display 10 rows and columns

Documenting:
The tester documents any relevant information about the tests, like test scenarios, expected outcomes, and specific test data.

10:30 AM - Automated Test Development Using Gherkin and Selenium (Tomato doing this)

Generating Automated Test Steps:
With the Gherkin scenarios created, the tester now uses the Tomato CLI to automatically generate the test steps. This involves feeding the Gherkin scenarios into the system, which then outputs JavaScript test steps for Selenium to execute. For example:

javascript
// Test Step: Grid Visibility Toggle
const gridButton = document.querySelector('.grid-button');
gridButton.click();
expect(document.querySelector('.grid')).toBeVisible();
Writing Selenium Tests:
The tester writes the necessary Selenium WebDriver tests based on the Gherkin scenarios. These tests ensure that the Tech Palette Mentor app works as expected. They use Node.js with Selenium WebDriver for automation.


Part 3: Afternoon Tasks
1. Performance Testing
Goal: Evaluate the responsiveness and load time of the app during key operations (e.g., image upload, grid adjustment).
Tools: Chrome DevTools (Performance tab), Lighthouse, JMeter

Steps:
Image Upload Performance:

Open Chrome DevTools → Navigate to the Performance tab.
Upload a valid image and start recording.
Observe the timeline for:
Load time for compressed image display.
API response time for /api/upload.
Save the performance report.
Grid Adjustment Performance:

Test slider responsiveness:
Set the slider to values 2, 6, and 12 while recording performance.
Verify the smooth rendering of the grid on the canvas.
Stress Testing with JMeter:

Simulate 100 concurrent users uploading images and retrieving color blends using JMeter:
Configure threads (users) = 100.
Loop Count = 5.
Analyze response time and server performance under load.
Output Document: Performance Test Report
File Name: performance_test_report.docx
Content Example:
Performance Test Results - Tech Palette Mentor

1. Image Upload Performance:
   - Average API Response Time: 450ms
   - Observed Delays: None
   - Status: PASS

2. Grid Adjustment Performance:
   - Average Render Time for 12x12 Grid: 220ms
   - Observed Lag: Minor at 12x12 grid with large images
   - Status: PASS with Optimization Needed

3. Stress Test (100 Users, 5 Iterations):
   - Average Response Time for /api/upload: 850ms
   - Success Rate: 98%
   - Failures: 2 due to timeout at peak load
2. Cross-Browser Testing
Goal: Ensure consistent behavior and UI rendering across different browsers and devices.
Tools: BrowserStack (or local setup with Chrome, Firefox, Edge), Responsive Design Mode in Chrome DevTools

Steps:
Setup Environment:

Test the app on:
Browsers: Chrome (latest), Firefox (latest), Edge (latest).
Devices: Desktop, iPad, iPhone X.
Run Test Cases:

Use the UI Test Execution Log created earlier.
Verify the following:
Grid rendering consistency on different screen resolutions.
Color picker functionality across devices.
Dropdown behavior on touch devices.
Log Browser-Specific Issues:

For example:
If the slider misbehaves on Firefox.
If the grid fails to resize on mobile.
Output Document: Cross-Browser Compatibility Report
File Name: cross_browser_report.xlsx
Content Example:
sql
| Test Case ID | Browser    | Device        | Result | Issues Observed                       |
|--------------|------------|---------------|--------|---------------------------------------|
| TC_UI_001    | Chrome     | Desktop       | Pass   | None                                  |
| TC_UI_002    | Firefox    | iPhone X      | Fail   | Grid color picker misaligned          |
| TC_UI_003    | Edge       | iPad          | Pass   | None                                  |
3. Accessibility Testing
Goal: Ensure the app meets WCAG 2.1 accessibility guidelines.
Tools: Axe DevTools, Chrome Lighthouse, Screen Reader (NVDA).

Steps:
Run Axe DevTools:

Use Chrome's Axe DevTools extension to scan the app for accessibility issues.
Focus areas:
Color contrast for the grid and palette.
Aria labels on buttons and sliders.
Verify Screen Reader Compatibility:

Use NVDA to navigate the app.
Ensure the grid slider, dropdowns, and buttons are read correctly.
Output Document: Accessibility Test Report
File Name: accessibility_test_report.docx
Content Example:
Accessibility Test Report - Tech Palette Mentor

1. Axe DevTools Results:
   - Total Issues Found: 4
     - Missing aria-label on Slider (Critical)
     - Low contrast ratio for grid lines on dark backgrounds (Minor)

2. NVDA Results:
   - Slider and buttons were read correctly.
   - Dropdown navigation was inconsistent.
4. Bug Verification and Regression Testing
Goal: Retest bugs fixed by the development team to confirm resolution.
Tools: Jira, Snipping Tool

Steps:
Retrieve fixed bug tickets from Jira.
Retest each reported issue.
Update Jira tickets with comments on the results:
If fixed: Mark the ticket as "Closed."
If not fixed: Reopen the ticket with detailed observations.
Output Document: Bug Verification Log
File Name: bug_verification_log.docx
Content Example:
yaml
Bug Verification Log

1. Bug ID: TM-1234
   Issue: Dropdown closes unexpectedly.
   Status: FIXED
   Comments: Dropdown remains open after selection.

2. Bug ID: TM-1235
   Issue: Slider misaligned on Firefox.
   Status: NOT FIXED
   Comments: Slider position still shifts on click.
5. Documentation and Reporting
Goal: Compile all findings into a final test summary report.
Tools: Microsoft Word, Excel

Steps:
Create a comprehensive Test Summary Report:

Summarize all executed test cases, results, and observed issues.
Include screenshots, logs, and key metrics from performance and accessibility tests.
Organize QA artifacts into a GitHub repository:

Files:
test_summary_report.docx
ui_test_execution_log.xlsx
api_test_report.docx
static_code_analysis_report.xlsx
Folder structure:
mathematica
Tech-Palette-Mentor-QA/
├── Test Reports/
├── Gherkin Scenarios/
├── Performance Reports/
└── Cross-Browser Reports/
Output Document: Test Summary Report
File Name: test_summary_report.docx
Content Example:
Tech Palette Mentor - Test Summary Report

1. Test Execution Summary:
   - Total Test Cases: 50
   - Passed: 45
   - Failed: 5

2. Key Observations:
   - Grid functionality works as expected except on Firefox.
   - API performance is optimal, but minor optimizations needed under load.

3. Next Steps:
   - Developer team to address remaining bugs.
   - Retest accessibility after fixes.
